## Reproducing a Prospective Clinical Study as a Computational Retrospective Study in MIMIC-II
  
This is the repository for the accompanying source code of the AMIA 2015 paper "Reproducing a Prospective Clinical Study as a Computational Retrospective Study in MIMIC-II".
  
All content is already here:
* one Java program (headed by HEDICIM.java),
* one R script (hedicim.R),
* and the intermediate data (the Clinical Data Table, file "HEDICIM 15-03-12 AM 07-37 MIMICII.csv") generated by the Java program to be read by the R script.
  
### Important considerations
* **One source code file is intentionally missing: Keys.java. It contains the username and password for accessing MIMIC-II in the local MySQL server at the U.S. National Library of Medicine. For re-executing the Java code, you will need to obtain your own access to MIMIC-II as per its regulations. If you intend to re-execute the Java code with virtually no modification, you will need MIMIC-II to also be stored in a MySQL server.**
* **Both Java and R programs contain a lot more than what was needed to produce the AMIA 2015 submission. One example, the Java program stores the internal composition of each calculated DIC score (which can be used to produce statistics about the scores). Another example, the Java program produces a file for the EventFlow data visualization program.**
  
Please be welcome to contact Fabrício Kury for help in understanding or reusing the code.
  
Sincerely,  
Fabrício Kury  
Vojtech Huser  
James Cimino
